# WealthSimple Case Study
> ##  A study about a Fintech domain
### In the last decade, the marketplace has undergone some drastic changes not only in the product or service offered, also how it is delivered to its intended public.Finance industry , like big banks and corporations, were not able at some point to recognize some common trends in the consumer market. For example , technology has totally revolutionized all aspects of our life. Especially a boom in sales of cell phones and laptops with sophisticated features, softwares and programming languages that run in the background of these gadgets has led to the investment in new fintech start ups.  There are many domains at which this industry focuses on. Insurtech, regtech, wealth management, personal finance and online banking are few examples. Ten years ago, if I were to invest some of my capital in exchange traded funds, stocks and make portfolio management decisions  on minimum wage it would be almost impossible due to the expenses related to it, time management and lack of resources and knowledge. In fact, these tools were only available to wealthy people who had a certain amount of money ( above average ), and living income. For these reasons, fintech start-ups as Wealthsimple accomplish a vital role in the wealth and investment management domain. 
### Wealthsimple Inc. is a Canadian online investment management service focused on millenials. It was officially founded in September 2014 by Michael Katchen. It helps young people, post graduates and whoever with no savings or little, accomplish long term goals for future investments, retirement and for any other situations where a good amount of capital expenditure is required.
### It offers a free and easy to use platform where clients can deposit their money on a day to day, weekly or monthly basis. This capital will be then used by our robo-firm to invest in publicly traded stocks and ETFs . All the gains are free of commission. However, if the intended public desires the robo advisor make investments for them, the firm gives you a flexible interest rate , on a compound basis that generally is higher than other institutions and with very less fluctuations. Once the setup is done, the clients are asked how would they like their portfolio to be; risky, stable or fixed income. The core value behind Wealthsimple is that everyone(whether rich or not) should have enough resources to build their wealth, and it must not only include wealthy people. 
### The idea of Wealthsimple came when the company he worked for, was sold to Ancestry.com . Co-founders of that company asked Michael, how should the wealth coming from the sale of their company must be invested. He suggested them a couple of books and made a spreadsheet to help them manage their own portfolio by themselves. The idea of the spreadsheet with a tax guide and lots of Data was actually Wealthsimple invest in its very  rudimentary form. 

### The founder, firstly, was able to raise a small capital investment of 1.9 million from Angel investors. Within a year, they were able to be backed up by $30M in series A funding by Power financial corporation subsidiaries, as IGM financial and portag3. Power Financial also indirectly owns 80 % of the Fintech firm.Nowadays it is secured by $250M in  investment from some of the largest institutions around the world. Last year Mckenzie Financial Group supported the firm with over $100M in funds for expansion in european marketplace, as U.K. Since Wealthsimple has been introduced to its canadian users, Katchen reported that they have 72% of digital advice market share in North America. From just 10 clients with 1.9 million dollar assets under management, it has grown to almost 5 billion funds under its umbrella with more than 175000 active users in Canada only. Most of its clients are under the age of 45 . Traditional investment companies typically target a demographic of people aged 45 or above. However, Wealthsimple invests in people who haven't yet started or are just in their earlier stage of investment. “A lot of young people are distrustful of big banks and put off by the paperwork. Michael Katchen, instead, is combining financial expertise with smart IT resources to shake up the industry and modernise investment.”  The main reason behind the shift of consumers from traditional to virtual trading accounts with Wealthsimple is due to its not only easy to use platform. In order to get an account with their platforms, there is no minimum account size. Users can start with as little as $1 and fees are generally below industry average. They offer a high saving product with no transaction fees at all. Users are free to open their own TFSA or personal one. This account rate, which goes up to 4%, is directly related to the overall market performance. On the other side, clients can either decide to open a stock-trading brokerage account or let the WealthSimple Robo-advisor do it for you. This big project has been enabled due to these sophisticated services and the expansion of automated asset allocation services with the  integration of Omni channel experience. The Data can be transmitted in a much more secure, efficient and consistent way. They use Data aggregation technology such as Yodlee, Plaid and Flinks to connect online banking accounts with Wealthsimple One. On the other side, for trading users, WealthSimple has partnered with Xignite financial data API to power Wealth trade. That's how Wealthsimple offers clients the opportunity to monitor their consolidated wealth from different Wealth managers on a single digital platform. Recently WealthSimple updated it's socially responsible portfolio with new ETF: The Wealthsimple North America socially responsible ETF (ticker: WSRI), that includes Canadians and US companies, and the Wealthsimple developed Markets ex-NA socially responsible ETF (ticker: WSRD) that include companies from Europe, Japan and Australia.

### Currently, Wealthsimple's biggest competitor is Questrade. Wealthsimple was only launched in 2014. On the other side Questrade first came in 1999. And now it offers all types of investments and stocks, both in the U.S. and  Canadian market. Wealthsimple has many limitations as well.  The only investments available through the service are ETFs or stocks listed on the NYSE, NASDAQ, TSX or TSX-V exchanges. And, even then, there are further restrictions. For example, stocks must be priced at a minimum of $0.50 per share and trade an average of at least 50,000 shares daily. Furthermore, if an asset is listed on both a US exchange and a Canadian exchange (i.e., it is a dual-listed security), only the Canadian-listed asset is available. The big plus for Wealthsimple Trade is its fees, which are literally impossible to beat: $0 commission on all purchases, sales and trades. The service currently primarily makes money from a 1.5% currency conversion fee charged on Canadian-to-U.S. dollar conversions (and vice-versa) that are required to trade U.S.-listed securities, and it plans to add premium services in the future that will come at extra cost.
### Questrade manages 15 billion dollar under administration and participates in more than 15 global markets , while WealthSimple 2 billion and trades only in North America and U.K.

### In order to achieve an extraordinary competitive level with other companies in the same domain, Wealthsimple should invest more funds in the application development. As most of the android still doesn't support the upgraded version of the software. So most of its users are most likely to use their services from a  laptop or a computer. This limits its uses between early investors and those who have just started. Phone technology is becoming very vital in this era, as most of our needs of communication and networking are directly related to it. By integrating the Wealth Trade app to other android versions and iOS phones , Wealthsimple will be widely known by even a larger number of users looking their way into investing and saving . 
### Not every device supports every feature. To achieve the largest user-base possible for your app, they should  try to support as many device configurations as possible using a single APK.  This can be done by disabling optional features at runtime and providing app resources with alternatives for different configurations (such as different layouts for different screen sizes).


**Sources:**
[https://developer.android.com/guide/practices/compatibility]
[https://www.wealthsimple.com/en-ca/]
[https://www.fintechfutures.com/2020/02/]
[https://www.powercorporation.com/en/companies/fintech-investments/]
[https://ncfacanada.org/wealthsimple-launching-zero-commission-trading-platform/]



